[TSURUMI]
So he was posing as a masseur,
while spying on us to
track our movements?
The former owner of this skin
was a very brave man.
Private Ariko noticed something
strange about the tattoo
when he was retrieving it.
It reminded me of the tattoos
that my grandmother has.
I thought it might be a hint
to deciphering the code.
Oh?
I hope that you
don't mind me asking.
Are these all the skins
you have, Lieutenant?
They are indeed.
I must hand it to you, Ariko,
I'm amazed you managed to find
the body after that avalanche.
Thank you for
the compliment, sir.
But I was just lucky.
His legs were sticking out.
It's a good thing
you were there.
The skin might've
ended up as fertilizer for
the mountain flowers, or a meal
for a pack of wild dogs.
Especially given that even a
single missing tattooed skin
would prevent us from
finding the gold altogether.
Terrifying thought,
wouldn't you say?
--[ARIKO grunts]
--Go on, Ariko.
Do they seem similar to
the Ainu tattoos you've seen?
[ARIKO] Ainu tattoos will
have regional differences.
I thought the skins might
have markings exclusive
to certain regions.
But now, I can't say.
Is that so?
That is interesting to hear.
Look there.
The moon's the same, isn't it?
What do you mean?
We see it every day.
[KIKUTA] Do you remember
the Battle of Mukden?
You and I spent a night calling
out to each other in a trench.
The only thing we could see in
the darkness was the moon.
The moon's the only thing
that hasn't changed.
[TSURUMI, HEIJI laughing]
[laughing continues]
[snap]
Watch your step, Admiral Koito.
It's slippery...
And it's a new moon tonight.
[gasps]
Come on, where are you?
[tongue popping]
[gasps]
Go!
Did you get them?!
Every single one!
[SOLDIER 42A]
I see footprints, over here!
[SOLDIER 42B]
Don't let him get away!
[TONI] There's a sheer
rock wall to our right.
And round rocks at our left.
--[tongue popping]
--[ARIKO groans]
If we keep going
this way, we'll hit a dead end
between the cliffs.
Let's turn back.
[TONI]
Watch out for fallen trees.
The stench of blood is terrible.
Can you make it
through the mountains?
[ARIKO]
Yes.
[ARIKO gasps]
A makiri?
What's going on?
[KIKUTA] A souvenir
from Lieutenant Tsurumi.
It was taken from the scene
of the ambush in Tomakomai.
[ARIKO gasps]
[KIKUTA]
He already knows everything.
Your father was one of
the seven Ainu who were robbed
and killed by Nopperabo.
I'm disappointed.
You've forgotten the moon
we saw from the trenches.
And to think I trusted you.
[ARIKO grunts]
[TSURUMI] That was a nice try,
really, but the tattooed skin
you brought me didn't
belong to Anji Toni.
And while it is
a very good fake,
it appears that Toshizou
Hijikata isn't aware
that we already possess a copy
of what his tattoos look like.
I assume that he's the one
who put you up to this?
Perhaps he told you to follow
in your father's footsteps?
[chuckles]
[ARIKO grunts]
--[crunch]
--[groans]
--[grunts]
--[huffing]
There's no going back now.
You've made the biggest
mistake of your life.
[ARIKO]
He's still alive.
[HIJIKATA]
Ariko Ipopte.
[TSURUMI] Allow me to enlighten
you about the difference
between me and
Toshizou Hijikata.
His plan for Hokkaido's
independence requires that
he gain the support and trust
of the Ainu people.
So, of course, that means he
could never properly punish you
if he were to discover
that you had betrayed him.
I have no such qualms, you see.
If anyone were to betray me,
I could execute them
with impunity, whether they be
Japanese or even Ainu.
I could make an example
of your mother, Ikaripopo.
Or your brother Yayuhuyka.
Your sister, Rerasuye,
and her husband.
Or your nephews
Isoninpa and Tumasinu.
So, Private Ariko!
I want you to bring these skins
to Toshizou Hijikata's group,
thereby earning
their complete trust.
You'll be my double agent.
Understand?
[TSURUMI]
Good! Now, with that settled,
we'll make it look like you had
to work hard to wrestle these
from us.
Usami, your turn
[USAMI huffing]
It'll be my pleasure, sir.
Ariko, clench your jaw for me.
--[growls]
--[grunts]
[squeals]
--Ah!
--[groans]
--[USAMI cackling]
--[thudding]
[TSURUMI]
You better run fast, Ariko.
The men chasing you
won't know a thing.
[USAMI, KIKUTA]
Ready? Go!
[TONI] Wait, let me rest!
Just for a bit!
Please, I'm not as young
as I used to be!
We can't stop.
The Seventh is
too close behind us.
We'll get caught.
[BOTH groaning]
[ARIKO]
We're here.
--The two of you look terrible.
--I'm so tired...
I got caught stealing the skins.
I'm sorry.
Did you get them?
[HIJIKATA] It looks like
we've retrieved Sekia's skin,
which Ariko passed
off as Anji Toni's.
And five more stolen from
Lieutenant Tsurumi.
Six altogether.
Did you retrieve all of them?
I took every single one of
the skins he showed me.
Is it possible that you
missed any of them?
From what I've heard, he keeps
one on his person at all times.
I stole it while he was bathing.
So you don't have
to worry about that.
[KIKUTA] I know he had
to earn their trust.
But was it really necessary
to hand over all the skins
we've gathered so far?
Wouldn't a paper copy
have worked just as well?
For our plan to succeed,
they had to be on skin.
They'd immediately doubt any
paper copies he brought them.
The one Ariko brought us
wasn't Anji Toni's.
But it's still a skin
tattooed by Nopperabo.
This is a copy of it.
But the only reason I can trust
the information on it is
because I made it myself.
You see, if this copy were to
fall into anyone else's hands,
they'd have to consider if
the pattern was real or not.
It being on skin
gives it credibility.
Another reason why the replicas
Edogai made are so valuable.
Wait, what? Replicas?
The five we handed over to
Ariko were all cleverly made
counterfeits, created
using real human skin.
How devious.
They won't suspect a thing.
[TSURUMI] It's entirely possible
that Toshizou Hijikata
will crack the
code before we do.
If so, the fakes we gave
him will prove to be
incredibly valuable.
That Ainu guy.
Do you think we can trust him?
We'll tread carefully.
It may have been cruel,
but I sent Ariko
to the Seventh division
knowing they'd realize that
the tattooed skin he had
didn't belong to Anji Toni.
[gasps]
After Saichi Sugimoto
was shot at Abashiri,
I saw Lieutenant Tsurumi
and his men take him away
with my own eyes.
Which means the copy
of Anji Toni's skin
would've been confiscated.
The fact that he made it back
alive means one of two things.
Either Ariko betrayed us, and is
now a spy for the Seventh,
or Lieutenant Tsurumi
deliberately allowed the skins
to be stolen and brought here.
Regardless of that, there's
a high probability that
all these tattooed
skins are fake.
Little do they know, that's
exactly what I wanted.
For now, we'll add these
five skins to the one we found
at the taxidermist.
They seem to match the
"human taxidermy" we saw.
So they can create fake tattooed
skins from real human skin.
If we let them mix imitations
with the genuine skins,
it could cause a lot of trouble.
It's extremely fortunate that we
were able to get a hold of them
before they
were spread around.
These fake skins were created
to be distractions to lead us
away from our goal.
They sought to
use Ariko against us,
but in doing so, Lieutenant
Tsurumi just handed us
an enormous advantage.
[TSURUMI] With Nopperabo dead,
Asirpa's the key to cracking
the code, so our top priority
is to keep her safe.
We're heading to Karafuto!
[GROUP]
Toh! Toh! Toh...!
[NARRATOR] Ryu had been
promoted to isohseta.
The lead dog
pulling Sugimoto's sled.
Just look at him! Ryu's so cute
with that thing on his head!
Dogs that are able to lead
a sled team are important,
and get treated better
than other dogs.
They're even allowed to sleep
indoors next to their owners.
I bet Ryu would be a lot happier
if we let him stay here.
He's found a place
where he belongs.
Thanks for everything, Ryu!
[KOITO]
Good doggy!
This man was just passing
through on his way to Oodomari.
He's agreed to give us a ride.
We'll say our goodbyes
to Henke and Enonoka here.
[sniffling]
[SUGIMOTO]
She's really grown up a lot.
[BOTH]
Hmm.
Hey, so...
[ENONOKA]
Hmph.
We'll wait for you.
Go after her.
I'm not going to say goodbye.
I'll wait for you to come back.
So don't lose your hohchiri
when you cut it off.
[ENONOKA]
You better not forget me.
Yeah. I promise I won't forget.
Hurry up, we're leaving now!
So don't cry. I'll come back!
[sobbing]
Goodbye, old man!
Stay healthy, you hear me?
[chuckles]
Cikapasi!
[gasps]
Enonoka, just wait for me!
I'll come back and then--
Agh!
[grunts]
Stop the sled--someone fell.
You okay, Cikapasi?
[SHIRAISHI]
You're holding us up!
[gasps]
[SHIRAISHI]
We're gonna leave you behind!
What's gotten into him, now?
[TANIGAKI]
Let me talk to him.
I don't want to leave.
It's fine.
Don't worry about us, okay?
You should stay here and
make yourself a real family.
[CIKAPASI]
Hmm!
Inkarmat's like me.
She's all by herself out there.
You have to be her
family now, Tanigaki Nispa.
[TANIGAKI grunts]
I want you to have this.
[TANIGAKI]
It was a gift.
Given to me by the man
who saved my life.
Use it to hunt, and to repay
Henke and the others.
Although, you should wait
until after you've grown up
a bit more.
I won't be around
to hold it for you.
So when you're ready to use it,
I want you to stand tall.
[CIKAPASI]
I should stand tall?
I'll be like a boner.
Isn't that right?
[TANIGAKI]
Hmph. That's right!
Exactly like a boner!
Whatever happens,
bring Asirpa home safe.
And make Huci happy!
Yeah. I will.
Goodbye, Cikapasi!
Live a good life, okay?
I just received word
the Lieutenant
will be here tomorrow.
I thought you'd be
happier about that.
There's something that
I've been wanting to ask you.
And I need to do it before
the lieutenant arrives.
What?
Ogata said something to me at
Ako, right before he ran away.
Barchonok.
But that wasn't
the only thing he said.
[groans]
[OGATA] The next time
you see Lieutenant Tsurumi,
ask him about
the Manchurian Railroad.
[KOITO] We gained railway
rights to Manchuria after
the Russo-Japanese War,
and created the South Manchuria
Railway Company.
But it only served as a de facto
expansion of Japanese territory.
One man had objections.
And did whatever he could
to go against the plans,
saying they were doomed to fail.
He was General
Koujirou Hanazawa,
the Seventh's old commander.
But the Lieutenant General
ended up taking his own life,
allowing the railway
plans to continue.
I remember Lieutenant Tsurumi
said something after
coming back from the war.
That our comrades
still lay beneath
the cold Manchurian wastes.
And that if Manchuria
were Japanese territory,
their bones could find
peace in their homeland.
Isn't it possible that
Lieutenant Tsurumi could have
had a hand in
General Hanazawa's death?
I mean, think about it!
If Ogata blamed
the central government
for his father's death,
Lieutenant Tsurumi's revolution
plan would've appealed to him.
But if he learned the truth,
that the Lieutenant was
behind it all,
his betrayal makes sense!
The one thing I don't understand
is why would he tell me?
He'd say anything to
turn us against each other.
You know what kind
of snake he is.
There's no reason
to trust a single word
that comes out of his mouth.
And "barchonok."
Ogata was one of the masked men
who kidnapped me in Hakodate.
I'm certain it was him!
[ASIRPA]
We'll be meeting up with
Lieutenant Tsurumi before long.
Tell me, what's he like?
Don't worry. It'll be fine.
[ASIRPA] What's going to happen
if they find the stolen gold?
If nothing else, nobody's going
to come after you anymore.
I see. And the Ainu?
If he wants to make Hokkaido
an independent state,
he's going to need to
stay on their good side.
He'll need their support
and manpower.
We'll negotiate to make sure
all your demands are met.
Since you're the only one
who can crack the code.
Shouldn't be hard.
We have the upper hand.
Just think. The men who
kidnapped you were Russians.
And you even saw their corpses.
You were probably
one of them, too!
Doing his dirty work?!
Listen to what you're saying!
You're losing it.
[KOITO] That whole thing was
nothing more than a show put on
for me and my father!
You pretended to rescue us
so you could get access
to the Oominato Torpedo Group!
Ogata mentioned the Manchurian
Railway to me as a hint.
He was trying to tell me the
truth about Lieutenant Tsurumi!
He's been using us!
Ogata, General Hanazawa, and I
were nothing more than pawns
in his game!
Am I wrong?! Tell me!
[HAJIME]
These are paranoid fantasies.
Enough! I'll ask him myself!
I'll make him talk.
We'll see what my father thinks!
But you were saved, weren't you?
I don't get why
you're complaining.
[gasps]
What's that?
I must say.
I had no idea Ogata managed
to connect all the dots.
I thought his plan was to turn
Lieutenant Tsurumi over
to the central government.
What's he so upset about?
The Lieutenant set it up
so that he got to kill
the general himself.
Ogata did it?
His own father...?
[HAJIME]
You aren't the only ones.
Tsurumi put on
a little play for me, too.
It's possible that soldier
was actually from Sado.
But after the war,
it finally hit me.
There was no reason for somebody
from Niigata's Second Division
to be in that field hospital.
According to the records,
the Second Division
was a full 60 kilometers away,
fighting in the mountains.
Tsurumi revealed what he did
after nine years had passed,
tearing open old wounds
that I thought had healed,
and pouring in his own love
to fill the holes.
When I think about it, it's
amazing how hard he worked
to save me. He's created an army
that would lay down their lives
for him--that would do anything,
no matter how despicable.
You know what?
I don't mind it.
My life was never worth
enough for me to get upset
about being used.
This way, I'm useful.
He'll use the Ainu gold
and Hokkaido's vast
natural resources
to finance a revolution,
and establish his own
military government.
Where the Seventh Division will
be allowed to flourish and grow.
After that, he'll
ensure that Manchuria,
where our comrades rest,
is annexed by Japan.
What's wrong with any of that?
So that's what Lieutenant
Tsurumi's been after
this entire time?
That's his ultimate goal?
[HAJIME]
I can't say how far he'll go.
He excels at using
sweet lies to save people.
But if what he wants
is a revolution,
or an invasion of Manchuria,
then it's the duty of
the Seventh to follow him
to the end. And find salvation
in making his dreams reality.
I can think of
nothing better than that.
Tsukishima...
Why are you following him?
[HAJIME] You see, only people
like Lieutenant Tsurumi
are capable of
doing great things.
I've decided I'm going to
watch how his story plays out
to the very end.
--No matter what.
--[KOITO grunts]
[HAJIME] A word of advice,
it would be smart
to keep all of this to yourself.
Lieutenant Tsurumi
wouldn't think twice
about disposing of you.
Also...
There's a pretty good chance
that I'd be the one
who'd have to kill you.
[gasps]
[panting]
Lieutenant Tsurumi!
You're simply amazing!
Wait, does that mean that even
our chance meeting in Kagoshima
was staged, too?!
And he faked a kidnapping!
I can't believe he'd go
that far just for me!
[cackles]
I can't wait to see him!
Tomorrow can't come soon enough!
I can't wait, I can't wait!
Hurry up and get here,
Lieutenant Tsurumi!
[SHIRAISHI, slurring]
Well, lookit that!
Couldn't sleep, huh?
Whass wrong, Immortal Sugimoto?
Aren'tcha jus' gonna hand over
Asirpa to the Seventh?
Then maybe you kin be
Tsurumi's li'l doggie.
It's not like that.
You wouldn't understand.
Well, if yer plan
was ter join them,
you shoulda done it
way earlier at Otaru!
He used to be a lone wolf,
you know!
He wouldn't hook up
with anybody!
Oh. I know the type.
Shut up! You don't know
what you're talking about!
Once they crack the code,
Lieutenant Tsurumi and his men
will let Asirpa walk away
from all of this!
They're not going to force her
to fight for the Ainu
like Toshizou
Hijikata would!
When you think about
what's best for her,
this is the only choice
that makes any sense!
Asirpa this! Asirpa that!
I've had enough!
What happened to getting money
for that widow you
were in love with, huh?!
I made a deal to get the money.
And I'm getting more than enough
to pay for her treatment.
That reminds me,
how much am I gettin'?
Ah-- You better not cut me
outta my share of the gold!
I didn't put up with all this
shit for a few hundred yen!
[snarls] Shut up about money!
It's annoying!
Blargh!
Puh! So tell me, when exactly
did it become your job
to guide Asirpa
to the right path?
She's not your wife,
your mistress,
or your daughter, you know!
I don't like when people
try to tie me down, either.
[SUGIMOTO]
Shut up and go home, you hag!
You're jus' bein' selfish!
Yer nothin' but an old,
shriveled up,
tired husk of a man!
And you're trying desperately
to convince yourself
you have something
you need to protect!
But you don't!
You didn't see Asirpa
while she was in Karafuto!
Trust me.
She went through so much, and
you don't need to coddle her!
I don't think you've realized
that she's not the girl you met
in Hokkaido anymore.
You reunited with
each other in Karafuto,
but now, you're going
in different directions!
You may not like it,
but the things Kiroranke
taught her were real.
He dragged her all the way
to Karafuto so she could see
how things were like there
with her own two eyes!
To broaden her horizons!
So get off your high horse!
And if Asirpa says she wants
to lead the Ainu people,
then let her, okay?!
If you just believed in her as
your partner and your equal,
I bet you could go back to being
the man you used to be!
And be honest with yourself--
do you really think
that Lieutenant Tsurumi
cares about the well-being
of the Ainu people?
W-Wait, what do you mean?
Blaugh...
Guh!
[fart]
[SHIRAISHI]
I farted just then...
Prepare to make land!
[NARRATOR] Next time:
"Fleeing Karafuto"!